Brief Description of computational research:

The work in the context of the GACRC is to use the 
computing resources with the recently developed software 
Ligand GA.  This project and software enables the 
computational design of small molecules and pharmacologicals 
such as therapeutics and anti-virals.  The methods and 
software are described in:   

Ligand GA: a genetic algorithm for automated protein design, 
submitted to J. Comp. Chem.  bioRxiv: doi: 10.1101/2021.10.11.463970. 

The software and much documentation can be found in the 
download link given in the paper.  

A primary advantage of this approach to model the interactions 
of a protein-ligand complex is that it doesn't require the use 
of molecular databases, which are tiny in comparison to the 
space of molecular compounds.  Repurposing and slightly altering 
known molecules are the primary approach in modern day drug 
design.  

Several example proteins have been examined so far in the 
Ligand GA work, and version 2: Ligand Multi-Protein: main 
protease 3CL of SARS-Cov-2, cyclooxygenase COX-2, and CYP 
3A4.  The work/software has been used to find (computationally) 
new inhibitors of the main protease and anti-inflammatories/pain 
blockers, by seeding Ligand GA with Simeprevir and others, and 
Aspirin, Ibuprofen, and Celecoxib.  

Currently Ligand GA is being used to modify Paxlovid, a repurposed 
and slightly altered injectable molecule developed by Pfizer for 
treating the 2003 SARS-Cov-1 virus.  In its orally ingestible form, 
Paxlovid is metabolized too quickly by the CYP liver enzymes (mostly 
CYP 3A4).  Ritonavir, a very toxic molecule, used to treat HIV, 
Hepatitus C, and other diseases, was added to inhibit the CYP enzymes 
to slow the metabolism of Paxlovid.  But its addition restricts the 
Pfizer Paxlovid/Ritonavir drug to a high risk group due to Ritonavir's 
toxicity.  

Ligand GA was formulated and coded to use a multi-protein system: 
high binding/interaction of a small molecule to a target protein, 
low binding/interaction to a set of others, or any combination.  
Constructing an inhibitor of the SARS-Cov-2 Mpro 3CL with reduced 
metabolic activity of the CYP 3A4 enzyme would eliminate the need 
for Ritonavir after modifications from an initial starting point of 
Paxlovid.  This example use is in progress with positive partial 
results.  In going from 1 protein to a 2 or N-protein system does 
multiple the computational costs by N however. 

In addition, characterizing the quality of a ligand binding/interaction 
to a protein can not be done by a simple docking score.  Constraints 
or restrictions in small molecular inhibitor design are generally 
included in Ligand GA, such as human ADME properties, amino acid 
specific interactions in the terrain of a 'binding' site, geometric 
properties and flexibilty of small molecules, and more.  The inclusion 
of structural aspects (functional groups, sub-structure) and database 
information can be included, in particular to synthesis predictability.  

The primary source of computational cost is in the use of the CCDC 
GOLD ligand-protein docking software.  Without loss of accuracy, this 
software requires very large numbers of docking jobs, on the order of 
1M for a single run.  The required computational resources, time spent, 
and in the possibility of using Microsoft Azure cloud computing, the 
possible cost.  Very real progress in drug-like molecular design can 
be made in real-time with the use of 128 to 512 processors.  The resources 
at the GACRC are important.

Expected number of Users
1

Can you estimate the amount of storage needed?
Very minimal disk is required, maybe 50 GB, in intermittent bursts.  
The raw CPU and RAM is the important resource.  There are different types of 
output set by Ligand GA parameters, and with specialized use the amount 
of temporary disk space required is larger.

Software planned to be used by your group
Ligand GA (Ligand Multi-Protein GA), Matlab, CCDC GOLD, AM+MN Corina Classic, 
MglTools

PI Requires User Account?
No.  Gordon Chalmers requires a user account.

Email
gordoncs@uga.edu 

MyID
810298877 (Gordon Chalmers)

Phone Number
706 612 7684 (Gordon Chalmers)

Notes
GACRC has Matlab installed.  I have an academic license for CCDC GOLD 
and AM+MN Corina Classic.  Each comes with 2 installations, i.e. different 
IP addresses that can be transferred.  I will transfer one of each of the 
licenses to the appropriate GACRC IP address; the installation only requires 
copying the executables to the GACRC and this license key (both softwares 
do routinely communicate with their institutions for molecular information 
and to verify the license).  MglTools is open source and will eventually be 
removed from Ligand GA, this is a small component used in open source docking 
software.